what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
gonna be doing something a little bit
different a little bit less education II
and tips and tricks for medical school
things I'm gonna be talking about what
is in my medical school backpack I've
gotten a couple of questions about what
it is that I carry around with me to
school how it is that I study at school
and hopefully this video will help
address some of those things just
yesterday I did a Q&A with all of my
followers on Instagram it was really
really fun I caught on to a bunch of you
guys's questions and I want to keep
doing it every single week so if that's
something that you guys are interested
in you can follow me on instagram
somewhere over here make sure to follow
me and you can participate those q and
A's and ask me anything that you want so
let's get started with the video about
what is in my backpack what I kind of
school with me every single day this is
a Herschel backpack I wanted it to be
kind of simple not too flashy just sort
of a plain black but with a little bit
of color or a little bit of style to it
it's pretty big I don't know too much
about backpacks I just know that this
one looks nice and I like it it consists
of three main compartments there's that
smaller compartment at the front that
you guys can see and then in here
there's the back compartment that
carries electronics like my laptop and
my iPod and then there's like that big
main compartment at the front so I'm
actually not too sure what to start with
let's get a couple of these things out
of the way usually I try to keep as
little things as possible in my bag but
I don't know I always say I want this is
why I want this is why I want this is
well I'm before I know it my bag is
super super heavy and I'm lugging around
this whole thing to school I try and
keep it as light as possible but
generally doesn't happen first things
first I want to start off with what is
like a staple of the medical students
backpack what every medical student
wants to carry around so probably and
that would be this none and now it being
my stethoscope so this stethoscope is
from commitment I was super super
excited when I was doing this medical
school and I decided to get it in
burgundy color because red is my
favorite color and I also got the
champagne finish on the end I'll show
you guys close-ups of these later when
you put it on patients seem to give you
a little bit more respect they seem to
treat you as like a professional and
that's really great because they take us
seriously and we can ask all of our
questions and they'll answer to us as if
we were doctors Carragher stethoscope is
really great I only carry this on
Tuesdays and Fridays when I'm in the
hospital or in the GP and that's because
I don't really need it when I'm
attending lectures or the library or
anything like that but it's really
really nice to have and I'm so glad that
I got
it was my favorite and I've been
dreaming about it for a long time before
getting into medical school it's just
one of those things that makes me super
happy to have in my backpack so speaking
of other things that I only carry on a
Tuesday on a Friday that would be my
medicine portfolio this book I mentioned
it previously in one of my more recent
videos it just has a couple of clinical
skills that we need to get signed off by
doctors either on GP or in the hospital
and it basically keeps track of all the
clinical skills that we're supposed to
be learning in medicine as well as all
the lectures and theory and things like
that you can also write your reflections
in here so cases that you've seen like
how you felt about them what you think
went well we think didn't go so well
when you were talking to the patient
anything you might have missed or want
to do next time so this is really useful
to carry around on those days now let's
move on to my absolutely necessary daily
carries things that I take with me every
single day when I'm going to the lecture
or to the library I think we'll have to
start with my electronics so this is a
case that used to hold only my macbook
but now it also Kies my iPad so we'll go
through those two things one by one this
is my sexy new iPad and this is my
macbook pro 13 inch this MacBook is the
one that I bought when I started
University at Kings I've been using a PC
or Windows laptop for my whole life and
honestly a MacBook has just changed
everything this is so light its battery
life is amazing the user interface is so
intuitive
if honesty has increased my productivity
so much I wish I bought one earlier now
this Mac is what I will use to do
everything that sort of power intensive
like writing essays doing research
anything that requires me to be on an
electronic device for a long period of
time where I have to have many tabs open
and do multitasking this is where I do
that and it does all of my work emails
as a writing research now a recent
purchase which I'm super super super
happy with is this new iPad pro 2018 I
decided to get the bigger one because I
wanted to be able to do multitasking and
things like that quite easily without
risking my real estate of the screen and
basically this is what I use to write
all of my lecture notes on now a lot of
you guys have been asking for a video on
how I write my lecture notes how I take
study notes at university and it's
coming soon I promise it's still super
difficult to film and I keep trying to
film and failing so it's coming on soon
I promise
so on this iPad on the
notability is where organize all my
lecture notes tutorials case based
discussions everything like that for
university for example right now I'm
doing supporting life and under there we
have subheadings like cardiovascular
disease respiratory disease etc so let's
say under cardiovascular disease I'll
open a lecture and I'll have the lecture
slides up on my laptop I'll be listening
to the lecture and I'll be taking notes
as I go along and the great thing about
the iPad is that you have this pencil
and you're able to draw on the screen
you can highlight things as you would
wish you can copy/paste images from
lecture slides and annotate them on top
I found this to be a really really
useful tool and in fact I used the
surface pro 2 back when I was in
University in Toronto and I used to take
all of my notes electronically and write
on lecture slides and things like that
but then it kind of died on me and I
basically forgot about it until this new
iPad came out and I was and I remembered
how useful it was that I was writing on
an actual screen and keeping all my
notes electronically so I've been doing
it now for a couple of weeks and I'm
just so happy that I've switched back to
digital notes and if you guys are
wondering why I switch to digital notes
let me show you so these are my two
folders from university all the
handwritten notes have ever taken both
from the University of Toronto for this
big folder here and for King's College
London in this folder but this is just
so heavy this is so much paper and like
the amount of organization and effort
that it takes to hold on to something
like this is honestly immense I'm really
proud of it I wrote a ton of notes
instead it's super super hard but it's
just so much work and so much effort to
keep everything in paper on file it's
just way too much work I don't want to
have to do that again these are the
notes that I wrote for KCl last year in
my first year so there's like tons and
tons and tons of notes in here it's so
much better to just have everything
electronic and it'll save you so much
time headache and hassle let's put those
aside real quick the next item that I
never go to school without is my coffee
flask I am a huge coffee drinker I have
a cup or two before I leave the house in
the morning and then throughout the day
I'll have at least another 3 or 4 cups
somewhere between 5 and 7 cups of coffee
a day so I really really love my coffee
so I need to have a flask because if I'm
gonna be buying coffee out each coffee's
something like 2 to 3 & a half pounds in
London so it's gonna be a lot of money
and that's gonna rack up fast so I carry
around a coffee flask so I can get most
my coffee craving out of the way with
coffee that I've made at home I use
coffee beans and a French press if
you're wondering I just think that black
coffee tastes better and lasts much
longer than if I was to mix it with milk
or anything like that so this next item
is a pair of noise cancelling headphones
this specific pair of noise cancelling
headphones are the sony 1000m x3 I
believe they are absolutely incredible
they're noise cancelling is unparalleled
unmatched they're super comfortable to
wear for a long time can honestly barely
hear myself right now they're amazing
for traveling for the commute in the
tube and everything like that I honestly
can barely hear the sound of the train
when I'm riding in the morning and it
just makes my community so much more
pleasant any noise cancelling pair of
headphones I would so highly recommend
because it just adds so much value to
your life really makes those commute
better really blocks out the sound and
you can just relax on your way to work
or school every morning
now something a little bit more fun it's
something that I always carry on to my
bike bag is this ping-pong paddle bat or
racket whatever you want to call it me
and Kenji that you've seen a couple of
my other videos we play ping pong as
much as we possibly kind of unique we
have one table in the shed I wish we had
more cuz it's always full and busy at
lunchtime but really we play so much
ping pong we have so much beef and it's
just a great way sort of pastime in
between lectures or take breaks from
study sessions in the library and if
you're wondering kenji this is an
official challenge to a ping pong
youtube series or championship or
whatever you want to call it I'm ready
so let me know and let's go so that's
not a couple more things for the big
compartment I'm not carrying this around
all the time so this book is really
heavy despite how small it is this is
the essentials of clinical medicine by
Kumar and Clark as our testing in
medical school has moved way more
towards actual clinical questions about
diseases symptoms management treatments
and things like that this book is super
super useful it's not as useful anymore
for me to just go through my lecture
notes or memorize the lecture slides
having an actual read of what patients
present with what they look like what
medicines to give them is something
that's becoming way more useful so I'm
kind this book run when I'm studying for
my exams and accompanying my lecture
notes slides and notes
I also have my charger here this small
tiny charger charges my iPad pro but
since it's also a USB type-c cable it
can charge my macbook which is great
because this charger is tiny and light
in comparison to the huge macbook one so
i'm really happy with this charger and
then finally I always carry a snack I
can't stop eating my juice each fruit
rice cakes mostly fruit but this is a
snack that I carry in my bag it's
nothing big just a couple of rice cakes
I really like almost zero calories so I
can just punch these forever and not
have to worry about it ok now for the
fun compartment of my bank this mostly
just has like knickknacks and small
things that I want to have easy access
to really quickly first and foremost
most importantly are these ear plugs
they are absolutely amazing because as
soon as you open the case they instantly
connect to your phone what more could
you want
it's like convenience at its best I
wouldn't have bought these myself
because personally I think they're super
overpriced but I got them as a gift and
I'm extremely happy to use them next is
my facial lanyard so this is for when
I'm at the hospital I can wear this
around my neck and I'm either
identifiable as a second-year medical
student everyone knows what my rank is
what my role is and that's just really
useful to have in the hospital along
with your stethoscope so other things
that I carry in the small pocket of my
bag is basically a small pharmacy I'm an
asthmatic if you didn't know so I'm
always trying my two inhalers in my bag
it's generally under control but I do
have exacerbations every now and again
so I have my reliever on my management
inhaler just in case I've got my
strepsils
about my lemsip let's see what else I
have in here pills for back pain hand
sanitizer
chewing gum always neutering them and
also antihistamines that I carry around
in this contact lens case I got from my
mum and the antihistamines are super
important so I'm allergic to basically
everything and last but not least the
super holy grail of my pack facts
something that no one ever has and that
I always have it is super useful is a
headphone splitter don't underestimate
the importance of this little thing
people always need headphone splitters
and they never ever have them that's
pretty much an overview of what it is
that I carry in my backpack this is not
as minimal as I would like it to be it's
not as minimal as I
that it should be but usually I always
find that I just want that extra thing
in my bag and if I don't have it there I
feel like I'm missing it I should have
had it yeah so I hope that gives you
guys a little bit more of an insight
into what it is that I carry in my
school backpack a little bit more on how
I take notes and things like that I'll
make a full video on that topic coming
soon but if you guys enjoyed this video
if you enjoy these videos that are a
little bit more personal a little bit
more about me as opposed to the UK can
that be mine interviews and things like
that do let me know where they comment
down below if you guys want to
participate in to ask me anything on
Instagram or just generally chat to me
talk to me ask me questions you can
follow me over here and yeah guys that's
about it thank you so much for watching
and I'll see you in the next one peace